---
layout: post
title: Droning
tags:
- ladder
- platinum
- protoss
- zerg
category: gaming
---

So my last two games today were basically the exact same game. I played against
Protoss players that built WAY too many cannons. In both games this made me want
to attack them. My thought process is the naive "Haha, wasted minerals on
cannons!" Of course this isn't true since I was so under droned that they easily
had more minerals than me in order to make cannons and more units. If I had
droned up enough then their cannons might have been a waste.

On top of that I didn't expand as fast as I should have. I should go for a
quicker third when I see that the Protoss has done a forge first build.

The main thing to fix is my droning however. I should fully saturate bases and
try to make units when I need to. Of course every game that I do this in I end
up being attacked before I have any units at all and die a horrible anger-filled
death.

Tonight at least solidified that I deserve my demotion into Platinum. I played a
bunch of 1v1's today. The ones I won were very hard to win, and the ones I lost
made me look like an idiot. All were against other platinum players so clearly
I'm right where I belong :-(

**UPDATE**: I was thinking about these games this morning and had something that
I would try next time. First of all I want to tech to broodlords asap. But in
doing that I need to make sure they don't take 1/2 of the map in expansions too
fast. When I attacked into their cannon'd third the attack would have been good
if their army wasn't there. I think if I tried a double nydus (easily affordable
if I consider how much they spent on cannons) to draw their army into their main
and THEN pushed the 3rd with roaches it would have gone much better. They were
already defensive but if this keeps them in their base I should have time to
push for broodlords after that. If I transition from roach to hydra/broods then
I should be in good shape. Definitely stuff to practice when I see this again.
