---
layout: post
title: Goals for 2015
tags:
  - life
  - goals
---

It's that time of year again. I want to make some new goals for 2015.

## 1) Stop talking over people

It is very often the case that I talk over people both at work and socially. One
of many things happen:

* I become way to over-excited about what we're talking about
* I think that the other end of the conversation is wrong, and want to short
  track fixing the confusion.
* I think I know what the other end of the conversation is asking and try to fix
  the problem or answer the question too quickly.

In almost all cases this is the wrong thing to do. Conversations where my boss
signals that I'm doing this end up moving way smoother. Listening does often
lead to a quick resolution without either party feeling talked over. This is
definitely something I'm aware of and want to fix in 2015.

## 2) Blog more

I've dropped the "become a better writer" part from last year. I would still
like to accomplish that but don't feel it's a good goal, but it's not something
that overtakes other things I'm working on.

I do however want to blog more. I do a lot of random things in WoW, Emacs,
programming and other interests and blogging about them helps me remember and
helps spread some of the helpful things I've found out about. Let's see if I can
actualy keep up with it this year.

## 3) Continue learning / Work on side projects

I'm keeping this goal from last year because it's super important to me. This is
why I think I'm good at my job and what keeps me interested in it. We started
doing hacking nights at work and I definitely want to keep that up. It helps
make this social and helps others enjoy side projects as much as I do. It's fun
to build stuff and actually use it day to day!

## Conclusion

I'm going to keep this year's goals at only 3. Two are carried over from last
year (one because I failed, and one because it's important) and the new one is a
pretty big goal for me. I want to focus hard on these 3 and not distract myself
with anything else. 2015 is going to be a good year.
